Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now previously we had a program to do certain tasks the given condition was true but what happens when
you start to create more complicated programs in which many different events could cause your program
to stop running.
You could be creating a video game where several different events could cause it to end events such
as the death of a player the death of another player a loss of energy or loss of a base any kind of
lawsuit in a video game or situation a videogame can cause it to end.
Not just one event.
For programs that should grown only as long as many conditions are true.
You can find one variable that determines whether or not the whole program is active.
This variable is called a flag and it acts as a signal to your program.
You can write your program so they run while the flag is set to true and stop running.
When any of several events set the flag to folks what this means is that your overall while statement
need to check only one condition whether or not the flag is currently true.
So let's have a look at how we might do that now.
So let's use our last example and we have prompt equals
answer.
Q
And this program.
OK next prompt
backslash.
And what is your name.
Ok just let me add in a question mark there the question mark and just on our first prom's let me add
in the new line characters.
There we go.
Now what we're going to do here next is we're going to set our flag so set our flag to true so act of
equals true.
So why the act of we wanted our message
Eco's in part from
and then if our message
becomes Q act of equals faults OK.
Otherwise let's print our message.
Print message OK save that.
Now let's run it
and a Q to end this program.
What is your number.
So I have a typo there but we'll get back to that in a moment.
So Tony Tony.
Frank Q There we go.
Perfect.
Let's just take a look at the program again.
First we set the variable of to true.
So our program starts to run in an active state doing so makes the while statement simpler because no
comparison is made in the While statement itself.
As long as the active variable remains true the loop will continue running using the if statement inside
the while loop.
We check the value of message.
Once the user enters or input if the user enters Q We set active default and the while loop stops if
the user enters ordered and the program continues and we print our message OK.
So there's another way that we can end programs and we look at using both this method and the last method
in our programs going forward.
Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.